hey stew From Evolution Unleashed today
is a bit more of a behind the scenes
look at how I'm building my YouTube
channel and while there are plenty of
YouTube tutorial videos out there from
people that are very successful I
thought I'll show you as I'm building
live raw real as I'm going through that
curve rather than sort of filming it a
year from now through the lens of
success and Rose tinted glasses where we
tend to romanticize and make our early
days feel so much more nostalgic than
they really are getting started is
hard
look winning starts with beginning I
know that's so cliche but think about
what it means if you have a seed it
won't grow until you plant it in the
ground until you take
action the greatest most majestic oak
trees in the world all start from a tiny
Acorn everything has a beginning
including your content so if you've been
thinking about building a YouTube
channel then take it from me not an
expert in YouTube videos by a long long
way winning starts with beginning you
just have to get started with the
resources you have now don't be
overwhelmed by them monster channels
yeah oh how could I ever do a YouTube
channel because Mr Beast I look at their
quality and I'm consuming all this
content I can't make that doesn't mean
you shouldn't get started if you go back
and look at those big channels in their
first few videos they were a lot less
slick than they are now because they
have an army they have an army of people
that are working on that content they
make it sound so easy but you don't see
the sheer level of resources they're
chucking at it to make it look
effortless but what about you when
you're just starting out and you don't
have a team and you don't have resources
well that's the experiment I've been
doing and today I want to give you a bit
more Glimpse you know a year ago I shut
everything down and with zero audience I
went all in on AI now we don't have a
huge data base but it's big we've made a
few dollars I have around 20,000 people
in a Facebook community so it's working
and two months ago I thought well it's
time to get started with YouTube but I
didn't want to go down the expensive
Road of hiring a video editor until I'd
validated that people want what I'm
talking
about yet here's the hard thing to
balance and this is what holds us back
right we think one day I'm gonna do this
one day I'm gonna do that and I'd been
thinking about this YouTube channel from
when I started Evolution Unleashed and
it took me a full year almost to kick
start it I let fear hold me back well I
don't have great quality how am I going
to compete with slick videos and look
look how wonderful my videos are as I
said I sit down I do a shoot on zoom and
what you see is what you get mistakes
and all no video editing at
all I wanted to validate which means uh
how do I describe validate it means
prove that what I'm talking about is
something that people want to hear and
this is the wonderful thing if you can
grow your Channel with very poor
production quality then you know that
you have something valuable and many of
you do you're sitting on so much
information and knowledge and expertise
that you've
accumulated but like me you can
sometimes we let fear hold us back we
let a lack of knowledge or understanding
of how to do something hold us back and
instead we go to someday Island someday
island is this place in our head where
all the Magic's gonna happen one day I'm
gonna do this one day I'm gonna do that
and it's gonna be great and we have this
idea of how amazing everything will be
and we'll have this big content team and
we'll have hundreds of thousands of
subscribers and it'll rain money on
us but that will remain a fantasy a pipe
dream relegated to somay Island which is
your little comfort blanket that tells
you don't worry about doing anything now
you've got this wonderful future and
it's missing the all important
ingredient of planting the seed in the
ground taking action and this is what I
encourage you to do so I'm I'm going to
give you a little look at what I've been
doing for the last two months with
really poor video quality just to
encourage you that getting started is
the right thing no matter where you are
now don't wait this is so hard to hear
isn't it oh but all the excuses come up
we're very good at excuses fear oh but
what if people don't like it oh the
production quality would be bad what if
people laugh at me suck on video I I'm
so nervous in front of a camera or
whatever it is we tell ourselves that
prevent us from going down the road that
we kind of Desire this YouTube channel
should have been done when I started
Evolution unleash but I
didn't however we're taking action now a
couple of months ago we set up a new
plan a new strategy and this is the
culmination of it but enough talking
let's use my very high quality screen
share on Zoom to go and have a look at
my channel so right now after a couple
of months I'm looking at 490 subscribers
that's not terrible I think you need 500
to monetize and I set a
challenge I need to grow this channel to
500 subscribers before I will ever
invest to send in it and that sounds
counterintuitive but look I'm going to
show you how easy it is to get started
just using Zoom which is what I do right
you can come over so I come over to mid
journey we'll come back to those numbers
and we'll talk about them in a moment
but here's this background I just
generated it today in mid Journey here's
the prompt you're welcome to read
it
okay and then I go over to Cana and I
add my logo download it as a PNG upload
it to zoom as a virtual background I
have a very cheap green screen behind me
that I picked up off a digital Nomad for
literally $8 I think it cost me it was a
digital Nomad leaving Vietnam I was in
the right place at the right time so my
eight this is my $8 Studio Plus I pay a
subscription to Mid journey to be able
to generate art but I use it for a lot
more than that let's go back to the
videos the YouTube
channel and you can see four 490 but in
the last 28 days that's 101 grown we're
up to
4.5k views this month which is well up
and 230 hours of watch time which for a
5 to 12 minute video range generally
isn't terrible now I'm doing a lot of
work on my analytics so you have the
analytics Tab and you can learn a lot of
very valuable information when people
drop off all this is available free and
it's very easy and intuitive I have to
give a heads up to YouTube they make
their Studio very easy to
work now with AI you can optim imiz
descriptions make sure you've got SEO
there is so much you can
do but you have to get started with what
you have and that's the tricky part
right that's the hard part and it's all
well and good hearing people that have
built 100,000 plus subscriber channels
telling you how to
start but they're looking at it through
that lens those Rose tinted glasses of
success and they're not really giving
you that raw kind
of this is struggles I had it's tough
when you put a video up that's very
poorly edited or not edited at all in my
case and you get like 20 views after a
few days and it just
PS but you've got to remove the ego all
things have to
grow you've got to learn to crawl before
you can walk you have to learn to walk
before you can run you have to learn to
run before you can
Sprint getting started
is the key and then it's just
consistency iteration and listen to the
feedback watch what people like and make
more of it that's what I'm trying to do
now this should be the last poorly
edited video you will see from this
channel because I set an AI strategy for
the business wired to me we talk about
that in other videos I won't go into it
today but that plan said when I get to
500 100 subscribers I'll hire a video
editor so let me show you my next steps
because this is
important now that I have 500
subscribers or almost that'll click over
in the next few days I thought well it's
time to implement and follow the
strategy that I'm uh that I had laid out
with ai's
help and take that next step to improve
the videos so I've put a job up on
upwork seeking a cretive a video editor
for long form YouTube content this type
of video so we can get the zoomi ins and
the zoom outs and some b-roll and some
cool little effects nothing over
produced but just to make it more
interesting to watch got plenty of value
to give but I want to increase the
production quality now that I have
validated or proved that people like the
type of content I'm talking about and if
I can get to 500 with zero cost and
pretty much no video editing then
imagine The Next Step which is 500 to
5,000 I'm going to bring you along on
that Journey too if you're interested
you don't often get to see a as you go
sort of uh development right so I'm
going to do this the next five videos
that you see on my YouTube channel will
be edited by a different editor now I've
only just put this ad up already have 10
let's see if there's some more
now no still on 10 and gosh no we don't
want to pay you more money and you can
see that there's various prices they
charging $12 an hour $10 an hour
$11.11 an hour someone using magic
numbers $150 an hour interesting $15 $40
$15 six seven 15 what I'm going to do
I'm just going to choose five I'm going
to get a range of different
people and each of them will be someone
that could start producing for us
fulltime but I don't want to commit to a
video editor until I've seen their work
so the next five videos one of these
people will be making each of those so
video one will be one of them video two
will be a different one so I can get a
range of ideas see what kind of budget
and I'll share that information so after
the next five
videos here's what I'll do we'll have
the five videos from each of the
upwork Freelancers and then we'll do a
review session where I'll have a look at
which ones I like best what worked what
didn't we'll select one who will be the
winner and I'll give you insights into
the entire process because I want to
show you that it can be a bit
overwhelming starting a YouTube channel
or whatever it is you want to
start especially because we think we
don't have enough knowledge We compare
ourselves to others we look at what
others are doing and we feel you know
that we're not good enough the Imposter
syndrome comes up but if you've got
value and expertise to share just get
started find your tribe find your voice
it takes time it's why I didn't invest
in a video editor until I figured out
what works and what
doesn't so I hope this has been somewhat
encouraging I hope you enjoy a little
behind the scenes look for those that
have been following our journey I'll be
doing more of these but here on out
you'll see the quality of our videos is
going to
improve we won't get it
right from the outset but we will take
the next step forward and that's a
wonderful thing the
seed becomes a Little Seedling a little
little tree mini tree then it starts
growing and then eventually branches
start coming until you've got this
wonderful wonderful
tree but you can't just go from seed to
tree overnight all these overnight
success stories what you're not knowing
is the resources and the audience that
they already leverage what about those
that don't have that I started Evolution
unleash with zero followers from scratch
a year ago what a journey it's
be and now we're taking the next step
into professional videos can't wait to
share it with you but just be encouraged
and get started don't hold back on your
dreams forget someday Island don't let
that steal on and Rob you of getting
started today because until you take
that first step someday Island will
always remain a fantasy in your
mind sure it'll be a nice comfort
blanket you can tell people I'm gonna do
this I'm G to do that so you you know
you feel like you're doing something but
in reality until you sit down and make a
decision I'm going to get started I'm
going to be consistent and I'm just
going to learn as I go well you'll stay
stuck you won't get started you'll never
grow remember till you put that se in
the
ground and water it every day it will
never grow so take your ideas remove
them from someday Island and put them in
the ground today get started and learn
as you go remember the biggest channels
you see they were little seeds once they
had their first videos and you look at
their videos from their very first to
where they are now the production
quality is massively different don't
compare
yourself to other people focus on the
value you have to offer and just share
it with the world the best way you can
with what you have available now and
just be smart listen to the market take
feedback and just push that into what
you're doing so you can constantly
improve and eventually you will take off
like I'm going to I'm not there yet 500
subscribers does not make me a YouTube
expert I'm the first to admit I know
little to nothing I'm testing thumbnails
I'm SEO optimizing my
descriptions I'm trying to do it all
right and now we'll see what happens
when we add a bit of production quality
I hope you're enjoying the journey
that's all I've got for you today if you
haven't already it would help a lot if
you'd subscribe I need 10 more of you to
push me over that 500 but here's looking
forward to 5,000 subscribers and I'll be
sharing the journey behind the scenes
along the way so you can at least see
someone who has no video editing skills
see what I go through see how I
eventually build my team and we'll see
if it works ultimately it comes down to
the value and quality of our content and
I think we'll be able to achieve that
but who knows all I know is to get there
I have to take this step and the next
step in front of me and if I keep taking
the right steps in the right direction
eventually I'll get to where I want to
go that's it folks see you in the next
one peace